
Answer the following questions


1) What is an instance variable?
They are data members that are apart of classes. Created when an instance of the class is created.

2) How do you create a new object?
You need to declare and create an instance of it.

3) After creating a new object, how do you set that objects instance variables?
either by directly setting them: object.variable = val; or with getters and setters


4) What is a reference variable? Why do you need to be careful with reference variables?
It is a variable that is not primitive and points to a space in memory which stores information.
You can have more than one reference variable that points to the same space in memory.
So changing something dealing with that reference variable also changes the information
about any other reference variable that points to that space in memory

5) How many methods can you have in a class?
42... jk. Any amount

6) How do you exit a method at any point?
using return

7) What is the method signature required to return an "int" from a method?
public int methodName(){}

8) Assuming "int num = 10", what is the syntax to return "num" from a method?
public int methodName(){
    int num = 10;

    return num;
}


9) How do you pass a parameter to a method?
methodName(paramType paramName);


10) What is the method signature for a method named sum() that takes two int parameters and returns their sum as in int?
int sum(int a, int b){}

11) What is a constructor?
The method that is called as soon as an instance of an object is being created. It is named the same as the class name.

12) How does Java treat a class without a constructor?
It uses/creates a default constructor

13) What would the constructor for "public class Animal" look like?
Animal(){}

14) What is the effect of passing parameters to a constructor?
When you create an object of that class type you must pass a valid value for that parameter

15) When should you pass parameters to a constructor?
When the signature of the constructor specifies any

16) What does the finalize() method do?
It is a method that is called right before an object of that class is destroyed during garbage collecting process

17) What does the "this" keyword do?
denotes a call to the class objects member variable

18) When should you use the "this" keyword?
When you have local method variables with the same name as the classes member variables

19) Write an example of the "this" keyword in action.
class myClass{

    int var1 = 0;

    myClass(int var1){
        this.var1 = var1;
    }

}

20.) EXplain the difference between static and non-static variables.
A static variable can be accessed without creating an object of the class that it is contained in

21.) Explain the difference between static and non-static methods.
Static methods can be called without creating an object of its containing class
